Katie edits (#2249)
writethedocs/www: docs/conf/portland/2025/cfp.rst

In the meantime, mark your calendars:

**The deadline for submitting proposals is 11:59 PM {{tz}} on {{cfp.ends}}.**
- **Deadline: {{cfp.ends}} at 11:59 PM {{tz}}**
- **Acceptance emails: by {{cfp.notification}}**

We'll let you know if your proposal has been accepted by the end of {{cfp.notification}}.
{% else %}
We will announce the CFP dates soon.
{% endif %}

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1
    :backlinks: none

> 

Reviewer: This feels good to leave in. It's a long page.

**Diverse group of speakers**

We welcome first-time speakers, industry experts, and everyone in between. We especially welcome talks from underrepresented groups within the tech community.

We want to hear a variety of viewpoints, so we limit speakers to two talks in any four year period at each location.

> **Single vs. co-speakers**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Number of speakers**
```

Reviewer: Though I'd rather leave in the strong additions I put in on L68:70 - edits welcome there. Regardless we need to dedupe.

**Mix of roles and perspectives**

Talks from the scientific community, fiction writers, system administrators, and support staff – as well as technical writers and software developers – all are valuable to our attendees.

**Past speakers**

> View our past speaker roles, and always remember, you do not have to fit one of these to be a speaker!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our speakers come from all over the industry, and have included the following roles 
```

* Writers

> * Developers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Developers

You do not have to have one of these roles to be a speaker, we're always adding to this list!
```

Author: Feels weird to even have a list?

Reviewer: yeah, I'm happy to kill it. The intent was to make sure that folks that aren't tech writers are comfortable submitting talks

What we’re looking for
----------------------

**Broad topics**

The focus of Write the Docs is software documentation, and we actively seek talks that address a wide range of related subjects, at various levels of expertise.
Documentation perspectives from other fields are welcome, as are topics from adjacent fields!

**Practicality and positivity**

We prefer talks backed by experience and experimentation to talks about theory, and we definitely don't like talks that bad-mouth technologies or approaches. Don't tell us why you hate something – tell us how you overcame the problems it was causing.

**Process over tooling**

> We tend to avoid talks about specific tools, which often turn into marketing pitches or tutorials. We would much rather hear about process, culture, data, people, or the metaphysical side effects of spending your life thinking about docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We tend to avoid talks about specific tooling, which often turn into marketing pitches or tutorials. We would much rather hear about process, culture, data, people, or the metaphysical side effects of spending your life thinking about docs.
```

**New ideas**

> Whatever your background and experience, we prefer hearing about new approaches rather than about tried-and-tested technology.

Reviewer: Is this true? Do we want it to be true

* **Twitter hivemind** – If Twitter is more your speed, `#writethedocs <https://twitter.com/hashtag/writethedocs>`__ will get you there.

Selection process
-----------------

We have a small panel of proposal reviewers. We ensure that the diversity in the panel reflects who we aim to have as speakers. 

Proposals are rated on a scale of five, after which we meet and discuss the top-rated submissions in detail.

To actively promote diversity, we choose not to review talks anonymously, allowing us to intentionally balance various perspectives and backgrounds.

Speaker benefits & logistics
----------------------------

**Benefits** 
- Opportunity to share your views and perspectives with the community!
- Waived attendance fee.
- Supplemental financial support if needed. If speaking incurs any costs that are difficult for you to cover, `contact us <mailto:{{email}}>`_ and we'll do our best to help out.

If you already have a ticket, we will of course refund it - just drop us an email at `{{email}} <mailto:{{email}}>`_.

{% if flagcfp %}

**Logistics**

> Presentations will be **May 5-6, 2025**, scheduled in 30-minute blocks, delivered **in-person, on-stage, live in Portland, Oregon.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Presentations will be **{{date.short}}**, scheduled in 30-minute blocks, delivered **in-person, on-stage, live in {{city}}.**
```

Example proposal
----------------

> Below is additional information and ideas to better complete specific prompts in the proposal. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take a look at our example proposal, with additional guidance on the proposal format:
```

I think this works a lot better as a standalone linked page, as it highlights the format better. I can't easily tell if there are diffs there either.

{% endif %}

Questions?
----------

> If you have any questions, please email us at `{{email}} <mailto:{{email}}>`_ and let us know.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Email any questions about this process to us at `{{email}} <mailto:{{email}}>`_.
```

{% if flagcfp %}

Write the Docs Atlantic 
-----------------------

If you want to speak at Write the Docs but can't or don't want to attend an in-person event, keep an eye out for Write the Docs Atlantic, coming later in the year.

This conference is entirely virtual, between the Central European Summer Time (CEST) and Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) time zones, so you can present or attend from almost anywhere.

Talks for Write the Docs Atlantic are pre-recorded, with live Question and Answer sessions.

> {% endif %}

Reviewer: I suspect we want to delete this whole section as in the blog post?

Author: Yea, makes sense.
